Bet: Good morning,
good afternoon, good evening,
wherever you are in the world.
Welcome to WordPress
Accessibility Day 2024.
My name is Bet Hannon,
and I'm one of the lead organizers
of this event.
This is the third year
that I've had the honor of being
able to help with the organizing team.
I am really excited for this year's event.
We have some great speakers
from all over the world for you,
and we're glad that you're here.
Let me start off by explaining
a little bit about
WordPress Accessibility Day,
share some thank yous,
and give you a little info about
what to expect in the next 24 hours.
WordPress Accessibility Day was created
in 2020 when Joe Dolson and several others
from the WordPress Accessibility team
held the very first event,
and the idea was 24 hours
of free online accessibility
education that anyone anywhere
in the world can have access to.
There's a lot
of great accessibility training
that happens
in the US and the EU regularly,
but there are parts
of the world where it's difficult
to find accessibility training,
especially during normal waking hours,
and it can be costly.
They wanted to address that,
and we've continued
to address that in these events.
In 2022, WordPress
Accessibility Day was created
as an independent event,
separate from the WordPress Foundation,
and through a partnership with Knowbility,
we've gained recognition
as a 501(c)3 US nonprofit.
This year is even bigger and more global.
As of just an hour ago,
we have 2,266 people registered to attend
from 79 countries all over the world.
We've also grown the number of speaker
applications year over year,
and both the number and the quality
of these applications
made selecting
this year's speakers really difficult,
but I'm excited that we
have a variety of speakers
over the next 24 hours for you.
We have speakers
from 12 different countries.
That's one more than last year.
Four people are first-time
speakers for any event,
not just WordPress Accessibility Day.
We have great gender balance,
including 7% who identify
as non-binary and 17%
who identify as LGBTQ.
36% of our speakers identify as non-white,
and 24% of our speakers identify
as someone living with a disability.
These folks will be bringing you talks
that will have something for everyone,
from beginners to advanced,
for devs and designers
and content creators, and more.
I'm really proud of our organizing
team this year.
We have had nearly 30 organizers
that have been working
together over the last year
to bring you this event,
and beyond the organizers,
over 20 additional people
are serving as volunteers today,
doing things like managing
technology and emceeing sessions.
All of this is a labor of love
to make accessibility
education more available to more people.
I want to give a special thanks
to Amber Hinds and Joe Dolson,
my co-lead organizers.
It really is a joy to work
with both of you.
We have had some amazing folks leading
various teams of the organizers this year.
Adrienne Grace has led volunteers.
Isla Waite has led technology and vendors.
Ryan Bracey has led the speakers' team,
Ricky Onsman
has been the lead for our
new Asia-Pacific team,
and Richard Gauder
and Sol Escobar are our co-leads
for the post-event team.
I especially want to mention two people,
however, and their teams.
One of the things that we've worked
really hard on in this last
year is improving
the marketing for this event.
Attendees can't sign up to attend
if they don't even know
that the event exists.
Michelle Frechette early on agreed
to lead our marketing team.
Michelle and her team
of six coordinated to get WordPress
Accessibility Day organizers
on 11 different podcasts and shows
in the last few weeks,
and they coordinated
a way more sophisticated
social media strategy
than we have had
the capacity to do before.
So special thanks to Michelle and everyone
that's been helping
with the marketing team.
Since one of our goals
is to make accessibility
education more available globally,
we want to make sure
that as many of our presentations
as possible,
which all happen in English,
get translated,
at least the transcripts translated
into other languages
so we can make them more available.
In February, Joni Halabi
showed up at an interest meeting
for potential organizers and that day
began leading our new translations team.
In the last eight months,
Joni has set up internal processes for us,
gathered together volunteers,
and they now have completed
or have in process
more than 30 translations
of previous presentations
in 11 different languages.
They've focused
on the 2023 presentations first.
They'll move on to 2024 next,
and as they have capacity,
they'll work on past years.
We are really celebrating this way
that we can extend our reach
globally so thanks
to Joni and her team of volunteers.
By the way, we're still looking
for translator volunteers.
If you could do this
on this year's website,
you'll look under the community item
in the menu on the website and you'll see
a link for "help translate",
which will take
you to the information page
with an application form.
We are prioritizing translations
into Spanish and French
since these two languages
are spoken in many places
around the world.
I'm pleased to make
a special announcement today
that through the generosity
of our sponsors
and donors, we are now offering
payments for folks who are able to help us
translate presentations
into Spanish and French.
Simply use that same volunteer
form and indicate your interest.
If you're looking for the translations
that have been completed,
just find a link to a past
Accessibility Day event,
though some of them
are on that help translate page,
and from that schedule
of the page of the event,
click into a specific talk.
At the top of the transcription section,
you'll see the toggle to select
the language.
We are already starting to think
about WordPress Accessibility Day 2025,
and if you'd like to join us
on the organizing team or be a volunteer,
please let us know.
There's an interest form
on the bottom of
the organizers' page of the website.
This event would not be possible
without our sponsors.
We want to give a special thanks
to our platinum sponsors this year;
20i, Equalize Digital, and WP Engine,
and our gold sponsors;
GoDaddy, Grackle Docs, Gravity Forms,
GreenGeeks Hosting, TGPI, and Yoast.
Thanks also to our silver, bronze,
and micro sponsors as well.
You will want to visit the sponsor pages
of the website throughout
the day to learn
a little bit about our sponsors,
but also to get the swag
that they're offering, because of course,
what's a conference without some swag?
They are also giving
away some amazing things.
There's some good stuff there.
Check out those sponsor pages
for the swag and the giveaways.
Thanks to the generosity
of our sponsors and donors,
the accessibility at this event
will include live captions
being typed by a certified captioner.
That's happening as I'm speaking.
American Sign Language,
ASL interpretation.
The ASL and captions can be positioned
and resized to fit
your needs or preferences.
Everyone can control
how large the slides or the shared screen
is versus the speaker video,
and all of these presentations
will be recorded
and published later with their captions,
the ASL, and professional transcriptions.
If you need any additional information
or help with accessibility for the event,
please see the FAQ on the website or join
the Slack to get help.
Our sponsors and donors also help us
cover the cost of paying for Zoom webinars
and other software
that's a part of this year-round cost
of putting on this event.
Because of the generosity
of our sponsors and donors,
we've been able to increase our donation
to Knowbility this year to $2,800.
So thanks, everyone,
for your generosity in helping
to support WordPress Accessibility Day.
Finally, I want to thank all
of you who are attending today.
Thanks for your commitment to continuing
to learn about accessibility,
no matter what
your experience level, and thanks
for all the work that you do all year
round in making
the internet a better place
for people with disabilities.
We're glad you're here.
Thanks for being here.
We hope you have a great time interacting
with the other attendees in the Zoom chat.
You can also join our Slack community
in a special participants' channel.
If you'd like to do that and continue
some of those conversations,
our session moderators will be posting
into the Zoom chat about
how you can join Slack.
I'm going to sign off here for a bit.
The Zoom chat
will still be open and available,
but we'll be back at the top of the hour
with our keynote from Lainey Feingold.
Accessibility is a Civil Right:
The Digital Accessibility Legal Landscape
for the WordPress Community.
You will not want to miss this talk.
Again, thanks for being here
and have a great WordPress
Accessibility Day 2024.
Speaker 2: Thank you to WordPress
Accessibility Day 2024 sponsors.
Platinum sponsor, 20i.
Easily build, deploy,
and manage all your projects
with 20i-managed WordPress hosting.
One UI for all your servers, apps,
sites, databases,
security, DNS, and email.
Perfect for agencies, e-commerce,
developers, multi-site hosting,
and high-traffic sites.
Platinum sponsor, Equalize Digital.
Since all they do is accessibility,
every post on their blog
is an accessibility resource.
You can find webinar recordings, articles,
and additional resources
at equalizedigital.com/resources.
Platinum sponsor, WP Engine.
WP Engine provides
the most relied-upon and trusted
WordPress products for businesses,
brands, and agencies of all sizes.
Thanks to our gold sponsors;
GoDaddy, Grackle Docs, Gravity Forms,
GreenGeeks, TPGI, and Yoast.
And thank you to our silver sponsors;
CodeGeek, Drake Cooper,
Elementor, Overnight Website,
Pressable, Second Melody,
and Accessibility Collective.